Won't come back and in the last lesson we left off building out our game board.
So you know we need to set up a function called build in order to output our gameboard and our gameboard
is going to be built from a loop.
So we know that the loop is going to be based around the length of our array values.
So let's say X equals zero and we're going to loop through X while my array length is greater than the
value of x.
And then just increment x.
So this is our basic foundation for building out this loop.
We also need a holder for.
So I'm going to set up some H2 Himmel and I can start that off by I'll call it the name game.
So I want to create a default value because within here all I'm going to be doing is I'm going to be
just incrementing each Tamal so I'm going to be adding concatenating even more and more to it as we
build out that object.
And then lastly I'm going to do the document get element by id and then select our output area and then
update the inner h to M-L with h m l value from the variable.
So that's what we're going to be building out.
So next what we need to do is we need to populate some type of values in here.
And usually when I'm generating these dynamically I use the single quotes.
This is because I usually like to keep the double quotes within my H-2 him else a div and give them
a class of box.
These are those box elements that we created.
And we also we need to add a string value in there.
So I was going to call it
I've got to put hidden in it for now so that this is because we don't want the users to be able to see
the contents of this as of yet and we're going to use the mouseover and so it and the mouse click as
well as
event handlers for this exercise.
So hidden.
And I'm going to just do the value of x or maybe I can do X plus 1 so that we're not starting at zero
because we know that arrays do start at zero.
So so will incremented oats.
And let's let's see where we are right now.
So we start we build out all of the elements.
So right now it's hidden.
And right now not much is happening.
So we need to add in the mouseover But we also need to add in that string value.
So I'm going to just create a holder here called string and it's going to take the value of my array
x
and I'm also going to show you a quick way to scramble the letters.
So this is a combination of what you can do with strings that string method and we are going to be looking
at this later on in the course so I don't want to go into too much detail but basically what this does
is similar to the function that we have up here.
So this will randomize the Basically we're splitting off so we're splitting the strings then we're sorting
them and then we're randomizing them and then we're joining them all back together again.
So basically what's going to happen is that we get shuffled value of that string value.
So what I can do temporarily I can put it here underneath that hidden.
So let's let's do that so we can actually see it.
So let's refresh the browser it's start.
So now we've got the scrambled names and you can see that every time it's scrambling them differently.
So this is just adds an added element into the gameplay.
So this does not need to be there.
It's just adding that scrambled effect so that these names are not as easy to read and that you can't
click on it and sometimes you can even make a mistake with it if you're trying to go too quickly.
So that gives a little bit more added benefit into the gameplay.
All right so we wanted to use the mouse over on mouseover an on mouse out in order to show the text.
So we want to show the shuffled value and then we want to hide it again.
So let's add those event listeners so on mouse over.
And we also want to add on most so that we can actually reset on most out.
So this will actually reset it back to what it was.
So basically this should say that same value that hidden X plus one.
So what I want to do is I actually want to pass these values up so let's create some functions so I
create a function to update the text.
So basically this is going to be updating the text as we move out.
So we need to pass in the values that we want to update and I want to pass in this as well as passing
the value.
That was the shuffled value.
And this is actually going to get a little bit tricky because of the quotes.
So we've got the double quotes we've got the single quotes and in here we need to break out of the double
quotes.
So we do have our way to break out of the quotes so we can break out of that quote and we can do our
actual single quote.
So that's just two of them in a row.
Let's add that value.
That was the shuffled value because this is what I want the text to actually say.
And let's finish off that and then break out of the escape character as well.
So we're keeping that single quote.
So basically we're able to escape the single quote that way.
And the other one is going to actually pass that same same function.
So we're going to pass it up to you.
Text and it's going to pass this and this time instead of the shuffled value it's going to pass and
hit.
So it's going to say the same thing that it already says hit him and we need to pass in the value of
x plus 1.
So the function for this one.
Now I want you to pause the video and create a function called the you text to take in these parameters
and update the values that are available within that element that's been selected and we're passing
this over so we can retrieve it as well.
On the other end and we could also not pass over this so we could use the target.
So that's optional as well.
So what we need to do now is we want to update the inner text of this.
So let me show you how we can do that.
Suppose the video give it a try and I'll show you the solution.
It's a solution is picking up those both as parameters and we're going to do t.
So that's this object.
So basically the current object we're just picking that up then there and then the message is simply
the content that we're sending over there.
So let's go back and we'll refresh the plage click.
And now whenever we hover over it we see that we get it we can hover in and hover.
And we get a quick glimpse at the name that's being hidden there.
So there was one more event listener that I want to add in here and that's going to be the on click.
So we're going to do it within that same format.
And this one we need to have a way to remove the element and check if it's right.
So we'll just call it our al.
So this will be removing the element and we're going to pass over the same parameters.
And instead of you text Let's pass this over and instead of passing over shuffled we're going to pass
over the actual string value so the unscrambled string value is what we're going to pass over there.
So that's on click.
And we still need to create the function for that.
So what I want you to do now pause the video create the function for this to pick up this information
that's contained within here and then the next thing that we need to do is we need to create a condition
in order to match and check to see if the users selected the right value.
So let's go ahead and create that function.
So this function is the one that we're going to launch when the users making their guess to see if they've
actually selected the right person.
So we're passing in this object and we're also passing in the correct string value.
So we know that we want to place the the key that we're looking for within the global key value.
So we know that we can do a quick check to see if S is going to be equal to key.
And if it is then we know that they've got it correct.
So this is correct.
And Else they got it wrong.
So we need to create some type of actions for that as well.
So again if you could pause the video and add in the messaging.
So just as we did before where we could send messages to one of the elements we've got two of them now.
So we need a message one and a message to function in order to send and retrieve messages so that we
don't have to comment them in here.
We can actually output them visually to the player of the game.
So pause the video and add those in and I'll show you how to do that as well.
So message so message one and we're picking up our message within this function and what we're doing
is we're simply outputting.
So we're doing document get element by id and then we've done this a number of times but it's always
good to practice this up because this is really important to just get really familiar with all of the
selection process and so on.
So this one is message so it's going to output the message to the top 1 and then we're going to duplicate
it and do a second one here at the bottom.
So that sets up both of our message messaging functions.
So let's go back up to our start game function.
So we've got build build us taken care of.
And lastly we need to create a function in order to find the users name.
So we need to initiate that.
So this one we're just going to call it find person
and we'll launch that one.
And what about this one just underneath here.
So basically this is where we're actually going to do our randomiser for the key value.
So let's set that key value here and add in a random value and then we're going to put it in message
one that find this name.
So find this name and then let's add in the value of.
So what I want you to do now as well is to pause the video and go back to one of the earlier lessons
where we found a random value from the array.
So remember we're using math floor and math at random and we're multiplying it by the railings.
And that basically gave us a random index value from the items in the array.
And then we could return back a random value.
So pause the video and put that value into key here to grab a random item from the array and I'll show
you how to do that.
So first of all we're going to just need the array so I'm going to do it within all within one statement.
And these were the math statements.
So math floor because we know that we're going to return back of value that's going to have a big decimal
point list attached to it.
So let's do math.
Random.
And when we multiply math random by a number that gives us a random value from 0 to that number.
So if we multiply it by the array length then we get a random value from 0 to the length of the array.
And that's exactly what we need to produce a random value.
So now let's let's refresh the page and click start and it says find Lawrence and it still looks like
I forgot one of the quotes here.
So let's let's refresh start again and hopefully this time it builds the name so spline Mike.
So now we've got our auction.
We've got Mike down here.
And the next part of the game is to finish off this function where we can click it and we can check
to see if the values are matching.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.